USCONFIG

NAME
	usconfig - specifies the arena's parameters before initialization

SYNOPSIS

	#include "arena.h"
	ptrdiff_t usconfig(int cmd,...)

DESCRIPTION

	usconfig is used to set parameters for forming a shared memory
	arena.  The usinit() function is used to initialze an arena
	based on the parameters given to usconfig().  The command and
	occasional second arguments are given as follows:

	CONF_INITIALIZE:
		Does nothing (returns 0)

	CONF_INITSIZE,size :
		The arena will be initialized to have (unsigned int) "size"
		bytes available for the user to use.  The actual allocated
		arena will be somewhat larger to accommodate internal
		structures used by functions such as usmalloc().  It must be
		called before usinit().

		Returns the previously set value of the memory size.
	
	CONF_INITUSERS,maxusers
		Usinit() will, by default, have maxusers set to 8.  With this
		command, one may configure usinit() to have any number of
		"users", up to one less than the system semaphore limit.
		"users" are currently the number of semaphores that the
		programmer wishes to have.  The actual number of semaphores
		that usinit() will set up is one more than maxusers (for the
		benefit of the memory allocation routines: usmalloc, etc).

		Returns the previously set value of the number of users.

	CONF_GETSIZE
		Returns the amount of shared memory that usinit() will set up.

	CONF_GETUSERS
		Returns the number of users (semaphores) that usinit() will set
		up.  Actually usinit() sets up one hidden semaphore for the
		internal use of the memory allocation routines (usmalloc,
		uscalloc, usfree, usrealloc, usrecalloc).

	CONF_LOCKTYPE
		Not supported (currently this library is set up for a single
		processor, hence there are no spinlocks).
	
	CONF_ARENATYPE
		Not supported, returns -1.
	
	CONF_CHMOD,permission

		The system chmod command's octal read/write/execute permissions
		are used here to specify the permissions to be associated with
		the semaphores.  By default, the permission 0600 is used (read
		and write permission for the owner only).
		
		Returns the previously set value of permission.

	CONF_ATTACHADDR:

		The shared memory arena is attached to this virtual address in
		the calling process's space.  The default value is 0, so the
		system will then select an address to attach it to.  Letting
		the system do the selection usually means that other unrelated
		processes which attempt to usadd() themselves to the shared
		memory arena will fail in the attempt.  Often, one good value
		for Linux boxes is 0x40000000.  The arena stores the attach
		address that the first usinit() used, so subsequent usadd()s
		will always attempt to attach to the same virtual address.
		
		Returns the previously set value of the virtual attach address.

	CONF_AUTOGROW  CONF_HISTOFF    CONF_HISTRESET            
	CONF_AUTORESV  CONF_HISTSIZE   CONF_STHREADIOOFF         
	CONF_HISTON    CONF_HISTFETCH  CONF_STHREADIOON          
		None of these are supported.  Returns -1.

SEE ALSO

	usinit usadd usnewlock

DIAGNOSTICS

	Returns a -1: error
	Returns a  0: the command didn't set any particular output
	Returns a  +: see the individual command for its meaning

AUTHOR
	Charles E. Campbell,Jr.
	Oct 15, 2008
	Copyright 2008
	-- see uscopyright --

vim: ft=man
